fears are growing of a wider conflict in
the Middle East Jordan's foreign
minister is to hold talks in Iran amid
increasing tensions in the region tahran
has been readying its response to the
killing of the political leader of Hamas
a group considered a terrorist
organization by many countries and early
on Sunday the Lebanese militant group
Hezbollah fired dozens of rockets into
Israel in response to recent Israeli air
strikes Ro fire lit up the sky in
Lebanon as Hezbollah launched barges of
ordinance at neighboring
Israel across the border Israel's Iron
Dome system intercepted the Rockets this
time at least there were no reports of
damage observers fear the recent killing
of senior Hamas and Hezbollah leaders
could have moved the needle closer to
open conflict between Israel and
Hezbollah and its Iranian backers
as tensions ratcheted up long lines are
forming at beirut's International
Airport the US the UK and other
governments are urging their citizens to
leave Lebanon as soon as possible the US
Embassy in Lebanon told its citizens to
leave on any Ticket available after
several Airlines suspended and canceled
flights to
Beirut I'm very very scared but I'll
pull myself together and go I've already
booked a ticket and now at the airport
they're saying it's going to
escalate so I'm scared honestly I'm very
scared I'm scared I won't be able to
leave this country and of dying here and
yeah I'm
scared meanwhile in Gaza the violence
continues
unabated this was the scene after an
Israeli strike on a School
Compound Israel claims the school was
being used as a Hamas weapons fact
but local officials say the building was
housing gazin displaced by the
[Music]
fighting after they struck we came here
and found the school and the houses
completely destroyed and there were
people who were injured further away on
the streets behind the school they were
killed and injured
people many Israelis are calling for an
end to the
fighting and a deal to bring home the
the hostages still held by Hamas in
Gaza but with negotiations seemingly
stalled and tensions Rising that's
looking increasingly unlikely for
now in Israel two people have been
killed and two others hurt in a stabbing
attack police say a suspect who they
described as a resident of the West Bank
was shot and killed by responding
officers the attack occurred in holand a
city near Tel Aviv a police statement
has called it a terrorist
[Music]
incident I have DW's Middle East analyst
Shan rosanis here with me in the studio
for more hi shanie let's begin with this
stabbing near Tel Aviv this morning what
does this tell us well it tells us we
know it but it's coming more and more
clearly the West Bank is boiling it's
been simmering on low heat since October
7th and the last months have been quite
intense and definitely last week you
know Palestinians have learned the
assassination both of De who was the
leader of the military leader of Kamas
who was already killed in the middle of
July but was confirmed that this week
and of course hania uh he was uh
assassinated in tan these two are from
the old members of Hamas are very well
known very popular also in the West Bank
and of course um we see that you know
the tensions are high the emotions are
high the frustration the anger West Bank
also there's a high level of
unemployment there's you know lives in
the West Bank have been very hard since
October
and we see it infiltrating more and more
into Israel and that's just one of the
fronts Israel will have to probably face
soon um as we're seeing more and more
tensions rising and this is also
partially what yir the leader of of
Hamas and Gaza wanted you know when he
launched the 7 of October attack in um
you know he wanted to have as many
fronts that Israel would have to face as
possible you know he was hoping not just
Gaza to be there but also West Bank what
we've been seeing in Lebanon what we're
seeing now happening in Iran in many
ways for senoir this week is actually
finally uh seeing the the wide extension
of you know of the goals that he has set
to himself you know wider uh wider
conflict in the region seems to be
serving his purposes so this does sound
a fun sound like a fundamental change in
Regional Dynamics here and it also
sounds like you know the war in Gaza is
is not the only active front anymore cor
yes indeed I mean when Israel decided to
Assassin one of the leading um military
leaders of hisbah it was clear that hisa
will have to you know respond more than
just what we've been seeing the back and
forth you know the fire exchanges we've
been seeing since October but rather
than you know uh there's a two separate
almost you would say uh uh fights that
hisbah is holding you know with Israel
on one is the solidarity one with Gaza
on the other is its own need to avenge
you know the death of its own people and
this will make things more complicated
if you add uh Iran to that which also
feel like despite the fact the Assassin
was an was a Sunni Palestinian leader it
was done on their land you know in one
of the most secured compounds in the
heart of their of the capital the day
after inauguration of a new president
it's clear Iran cannot you know just sit
atly by and not respond so Israel what
was was doing this week is basically
saying uh anybody who thinks that we are
winding our efforts down or we are
trying to you know strive for a deal and
bring this whole uh conflict uh you know
to a close we're actually doubling in
we're going all you know all in on all
fronts and we're are trying to show
we're not deterred we're not afraid of
anybody or anything and we can deal also
with multiple fronts you know happening
simultaneously or at least this is the
message is would like to send uh we will
have to wait for the response to see how
well Israel manages to actually deal
with these threats yeah indeed sh we
don't have much more time but just very
briefly Iran uh now a few days after
these assassinations already clear what
kind of response we will see from we see
it's not a it's not a gut response we
see Iranians are taking their time
they're very happy to keep Israel on
edge to see everybody you know uh on
high alert um probably we will see some
some kind of a joint attack uh with some
of the proxy militias that we know are
connected to Iran um and I guess the
threshold that we've seen in April of
over 300 different missiles that were
shot in Israel that would be the minimum
they will start from and I guess they
would have to try to spike it up and be
a bit more efficient and effective in
their uh targeting this time well thank
you so much for joining me in the studio
that is a ranes